rem Nathan Dalal
rem 2/24/14

rem Program Overwiew:
rem This program does a frequency analysis on a range of random numbers. BASIC cannot
rem create true random numbers, but rather it uses a concept called a seed. The seed 
rem corresponds to an array of values that are read off in succession each time the random
rem function is called with that seed. The purpose of this program is to analyze the
rem variation on random numbers depending on the seed given by the user.

rem Implementation:
rem The program will prompt the user for a seed, followed by the two max and min numbers,
rem followed by the nf number. It will then create an array of length max - min; this
rem array will carry out frequency analysis. Using a seed, the random number algorithm
rem will generate nf random values, and the amount of these values will be stored in the
rem frequency analysis array. Then, the numbers and the frequencies in the array will be
rem printed for display.

rem BASIC Code:

121 input "seed"; sd : rem the seed of random number generation
122 input "min"; mn : input "max"; mx : rem min and max of nums
123 input "amount of freq"; nf : rem amount of frequency analysis done
124 dim fr(mx - mn) : rem creation of frequency analysis array

141 for i=1 to nf :rem begin array filling loop
142 gosub 181 : rem jumps to random number subroutine
143 fr(r - mn) = fr(r - mn) + 1 : rem increments array value at index
144 next : rem end of array filling loop

161 for n = mn to mx : rem begin printing for loop
162 print "number -->" ; n ; "  frequency -->" ; fr(n - mn)
163 next : rem end of printing loop
164 end : rem where program will end

181 rem entry point for random number subroutine
182 r = mn + int(rnd(sd)*(mx-mn+1)) : rem random number algorithm
183 return : rem exit random number subroutine

rem Results:
rem After Excel Spreadsheet analysis, I discovered that the 0 seed has a consistent peak
rem in the middle, while the 1 seed has a wavy inconsistent form. Both are not very
rem reliable number generators to bet on.